FreeCodeCamp at Parkland College :: Participant Profile

Name: Ray Meredith

Introduction: I am a co-organizer of FreeCodeCamp at Parkland College, as well as a participant. I'm also a professor in Parkland's Humanities department, where I teach ESL, Spanish (plus HUM 106), and English composition.

Education: My undergraduate degree is in Spanish Language and Literature. I have a graduate degree in the teaching of English as a Second Language (MATESL), as well as a certificate of advanced study in Educational Psychology. All of my degrees are from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

Coding-related Experience: My first experience with working code was during the sixth grade in an after-school program that taught BASIC programming on Apple II computers at one of the high schools in Kankakee, my home town. From that experience, I moved on to the Commodore computer line: VIC-20, then a C-64, and then a C-128. I also participated in a Commodore user group while in high school, and picked up some hourly work typing in and double checking BASIC code on PET machines for a fellow member. He was basically making modifications to code at his workplace as well as for side jobs, mostly by scribbling the changes onto printouts of the code, and saving time by having me do the actual typing. I won't claim I became a skilled programmer by doing that, but it certainly helped give me ideas on how to approach modifying game code from magazines and recreating my own version of an arcade game to exchange with friends. I entered the U.S. Navy right after high school, and didn't do any programming then or for many years afterwards, until graduate school, when I learned HTML and Perl to use the CGI.pm module to create a very basic on-line quiz delivery web application for an independent study project. Not long after, I became interested in Javascript as well as the Macromedia Flash application's variation on Javascript, Actionscript. I used Flash to create some ESL activities for Parkland's ESL program web page as well as for my own ESL courses. When I returned to graduate school for a second Master's degree, I received a UIUC research assistantship with a professor, Gary Cziko, who was collaborating with a team at NCSA to investigate the use of videoconferencing in language learning. My coding work on that project involved using Flash on the client side and Macromedia's Flash Communication Server on the back end, both with extensive coding in different flavors of Actionscript. That NCSA project was my last coding-related experience before beginning the FreeCodeCamp curriculum in 2016.

Professional Experience: I taught in the U of I's Intensive English Program while in graduate school for my master's degree, and briefly afterwards, when I also taught part time in Parkland's ESL program. I was hired at Parkland on a full-time basis after a year of part time work, and will complete 20 years of employment there in 2018. While at Parkland, I've taught using on-line platforms such as early bulletin board systems and learning management systems such as WebCT, Angel, and Desire2Learn. In pre-college courses, my lessons feature a great deal of IT and practical computer skills work as part of learning English, especially word processing and presentation software, on-line research, and web based language learning tools such as Memrise and Duolingo.

Personal Interests: I enjoy coding for coding's sake, and over the years have played with a number of languages such as Smalltalk, Ruby, UNIX shell scripting, and Java. I also enjoy language learning and traveling places where I am forced to use them, and I have studied or lived in Mexico, Japan, Poland, Hungary, and Costa Rica. I read less than I'd like these days, and when I do, it's mostly science fiction along with some Latin American fiction or history. I watch more video programming than I probably should, and most of my favorite shows involve science fiction or technology themes. Without a doubt, the most rewarding and gratifying use of my time is as a parent, attending the band concerts, plays, and other performances or tournaments my son and daughter are involved in.
